Now let's talk about interfaces an interface and see sharp contains only the declarations of methods
and properties but not the implementations it is left to recall classes inheriting from the interface
to provide their own definitions.
You can think of an interface as an abstract class that only has abstract methods and properties.
Interfaces do not have constructors or fields on them so they don't have a constructor.
They don't have fields.
Now the question that might arise naturally is this Why in the world would we have interfaces if we
already have abstract classes then we can make them act as an interface.
This is an amazing question and one worth asking.
Also one quick invention you inherit from classes would you implement an interface.
Once again this is just a convention.
But at the end of the day it is just how you referred to an abstract class.
Inheritance versus interface inheritance.
But on the back end inheritance gets performed the same exact way for an abstract class or an interface
which is via a common symbol.
So for both you still perform inheritance just like this.
So you just put a call in the left side is the class inheriting from the class that you put on the right
side or an interface.
But back to the question why do we have interfaces basically interfaces were made to get around the
lack of multiple inheritances in C sharp.
So that means that you cannot inherit from more than one class but you can implement multiple interfaces.
Let's go out and see an example.
I will go ahead and copy the salesman class the abstract class rather and I will have another abstract
class called salesman.
Little dots.
Yes I will add little next to the name and I will actually take everything out.
I will keep this a very simple abstract class.
I will take this one as well and I will just basically make this an abstract method and that's it.
OK.
Very very simple abstract class.
Now I will go ahead and I'll say car salesman inherits from salesman based class and it inherits from
salesman little See I can't do it.
Why.
It says class car salesman cannot have multiple base classes.
And that's because we cannot inherit from multiple classes.
In this case multiple abstract classes in C sharp that is prohibited but the way to get around it is
to use interfaces.
So I'll take that out.
I will remove this as well.
So as you can see that's the main reason.
The other one is where to utilize each one.
So abstract classes are meant to unify related class functionality into one unit so that it can be shared
and maintained in one place.
As we saw in the previous videos some of the functionality as you know can be predefined and the rest
of it can be abstract or virtual.
It depends on the needs requirements etc. But that is the purpose of the abstract class.
We already know this part.
So this is just a refresher interfaces on the other hand are made to be completely abstract and their
purpose is to provide with an ability to unrelated group of classes.
We can try our best to do the same thing we do for abstract classes view interfaces but that would be
putting a square peg in a round hole.
Why torture ourselves and make our lives harder and other developers lives harder when they are reading
our code.
If we can just use each tool for what it was made for as a matter of fact we learn through failure.
Correct.
So let's go ahead and let's put a square peg in a round hole.
Let's rewrite our abstract class and make it into an interface and see how it affects our code overall.
This will show us even better why we didn't choose to use an interface in this particular scenario.
Okay so we'll go ahead and turn our abstract class into an interface.
The way you create an interface is via the interface reserved keyword.
So say interface.
And as you can see I can't have fields I can't have anything defined such as a method or property and
I can't have a constructor so I'll actually take the constructor out start from the retail person bring
it over here and I really need this anymore except the name.
So here we go.
That part is complete and then I will leave the method inside.
That's cool.
I will bring the properties or rather store the fields into retail salesperson.
That is all set now and we can't have anything defined on our interface so I'll take this definition
out.
Can only have declarations.
We can have virtual abstract now that just a signature of the method and our property defined in an
abstract manner.
So that means that we can just say that full name is a property and it has a get method but we can't
say what that get method does.
The way we have it right here.
This has to be defined on the child class or the implementing class which you know once again is just
a convention the way it's done is very similar.
So if I go to a retail salesperson right now the method says that it has a problem because of the fact
that we're using override when we're dealing with interfaces we don't really need to say override we
don't use the reserve keyword override within interfaces.
That's only with abstract classes that have abstract methods.
That's all.
So we can't take this out as you can't see the full name doesn't exist so we need to do it so we can
just create that and then give it the definition right here.
OK
I'll just put it at the top just so it reads better at least for me it does.
But you can't leave it anywhere it doesn't really matter.
This is not a technical issue it's just for organizational purposes is all OK so now we have everything
here.
This works are a salesman is an interface and we can go ahead and grab all this stuff bring it to car
salesman and we will only need to change a few things here.
We need to change the name of the constructor so that the constructor name matches the name of the class
which it does.
And then here we just need to change it to car.
And that's it.
If we go the program.
So as you can see nothing has changed on the program class we have changed the implementation behind
how it works.
However the way classes get instantiated stayed exactly the same.
So even with retail salesperson I mean it would be very similar to this but if I was to say let's just
make another one if I said retail sales person and I said John
the sales dude once again.
So check these guys here.
Say John Doe then this basically is the same thing right.
The implementation behind it has changed so before it was inheriting from an abstract class.
But now it's implementing an interface so the implementation behind it has changed.
As you can see we've done it.
Right now there's an interface instead of an abstract class so as for the retail salesperson.
However the way we instantiate the class does not change and I just wanted to show that to you.
So once again as you can see with an interface we cannot unify all the functionality.
So here we still have our fields in two places so repeating a lot of code.
We have our property defined the same exact way we have it right here and we have our constructor that's
very similar except a name.
But if it was on the base class or the abstract class then we would just have it once.
The only thing that's different is the cell method which before we had a defined on each class.
So that's fine.
But the rest of them is repetitive.
So this is why we have used an abstract class for this kind of scenario.
And what was the scenario once again.
We basically had multiple concrete classes which shared functionality.
So we unified it all into an abstract class and let only methods be overridden by each concrete class
since it was truly not shared.
Now let's go ahead and undo all the recent interface rewrites and turn salesman back into an abstract
class since we saw it was not a correct tool for our specific situation.
So I will go ahead and turn this back into an abstract class so that comes back the method the fields
the constructor abstract class.
OK.
So I think I have everything here.
Car salesmen will go back to its original definition retail salesperson will also go back to its original
definition so no fields no property.
Take that out OK.
And there you go.
So now it's overriding the method specifically.
We have a constructor that passes in the fields to the base.
Same here.
And our salesman is an abstract class so we have came back to our original state that we started from.
But the reason why I wanted to do a quick rewrite is just to show you that it was not the correct tool
for our situation.
So that then we can see when is the right time to use an interface.
I will not go ahead and create another abstract class called developer followed by two concrete classes
called web developer and software developer.
These will have a very similar structure to the salesman with a few exceptions but regardless these
will be an unrelated group from the salesman abstract class new file developer
that yes is an abstract class developer.
I will only have one field.
The field will be called main dev language.
No property.
Very simple one and she's going to set that in the constructor.
And here we go.
All right.
And then you have your developer as the constructor and we will not have cell instead of.
We will have something called code and that will just say simply so say
I am coding
using my main language and then the actual dub language.
OK.
I'm coding using my main dev language and that's it.
It's a virtual method and both of the other classes the comedy classes inheriting from developer will
actually use the virtual.
So those will be symbol as well as a new file.
Web developer see us copy the name web developer and then I will just basically paste that can be very
similar to this really but I just don't want to write code just making it simpler for myself by copying
and pasting it in this case so that the video doesn't get longer as well.
OK so I will say that and we can actually take all this out and let it generate automatically I will
inherit from developer instead of salesmen and the only thing we have is really the constructor we will
get the generic definition for a code method.
So that's fine.
And then I will say new file software developer yes so software developer and very simple to web developer
cept a name.
So I would say rename grab the name from that and bam we're good to go.
Now that we have two unrelated groups of classes let's introduce a new problem for which we will use
interfaces as a solution to demonstrate how they work even clearly.
The problem is that we want to be able to give certain classes.
In this case individuals such as salesmen and developers to have an ability to self develop.
Now you can argue that we don't need an interface for this we can just go ahead and create separate
methods one for each class that we want it to have a self development ability.
Let's actually go ahead and do that and then we will see why it doesn't work very well.
So I will go to retail salesperson and I will say retail salesperson needs to have a method called develop.
OK.
So this is develop
and it's going to say the following for retail salesperson is going to say simply
I don't need that.
So take it out.
It's going to say I develop myself by watching retail sales training videos.
OK.
So I develop myself by watching retail sales training videos.
Cool.
Now we have we'll have another method with the same signature same signature on web developer.
OK.
Right here I develop myself by watching you DME web development
courses.
OK.
I develop myself by watching you dummy Web development courses.
Great as you can see we have the developed method as separate method in each class.
In no way shape or form is it enforced by anything.
For example when we have an abstract method in an abstract class and we inherit from the abstract class
it it forces us to overwrite it and have our own definition.
If we don't do it the program won't run.
This is a great reminder which introduces stability and regulation into our program.
Since anybody making a child class in inheriting from the base class which has an abstract method would
have to define that method in our case there are no rules to regulate as to which class has to have
self development ability.
There are no regulations.
Now you might be asking why in the world do we need to regulate this and how is an interface beneficial.
In this case since it doesn't have any implementation meaning that implementation is still going to
be on the concrete class just the way we have it right here and right here.
So with that said.
How does an interface going to change anything.
This is a great question.
In order to answer this we need to place ourselves into a more realistic scenario.
Imagine you are working in a team of 10 people and one of the developers decides to go ahead and rewrite
your web developer class.
So they go here and they decide to rewrite it.
They the person the person rewriting it then proceed to take out the developed method and put it somewhere
else.
Then just take this out and put it somewhere else.
If you don't have any rules in place that say a developed method is required and the web developer class
then the person rewriting will just not know anything about it.
This will cause problems if you had something that reminded the person rewriting it that it is required.
Then it would avoid a whole lot of trouble.
For example if you go to your salesmen and make this an abstract method right.
Let's just keep this abstract for now.
Instead of virtual and you go to the car salesman and let's say I'm that same person rewriting this
class if I was to take the sell method and put it somewhere else guess what.
The program won't run because it says it is required.
So then I would know hey this method is required as part of this class.
It needs to be there and it needs to have its own definition.
So something gave me a reminder this introduced stability and regulation into the program but would
develop here and here we don't have that same stability.
Anybody can come in and do whatever they want they can change the name of develop they can make it return
a type they can basically take it out and put it somewhere else and there is no way for us to tell that
other person that it is a required thing.
Now the other question you might have is why don't we just put the developed method on the abstract
class and let the abstract class require it from the inheriting class.
Once again good question and the answer is because then all of the inheriting classes would need to
implement the developed method which in our case is not true.
So for example if you're saying that we should put the developer on the developer right here and make
it into an abstract method then web developer would required of course but so as the software developer
but our requirement is that only the web developer has the ability to sell develop.
So that would not really satisfy our quote unquote business requirement.
Now in the next video for a continuation of this one we will actually put an interface into place and
see how it solves our current problem.